As identified in Lead lifecycle in Dynamics 365 for
Marketing there are multiple ways to find new leads. For
example, you will engage with your contacts through marketing
initiatives and your contacts will then express their interests. Leads
can be generated by manually adding, importing from a file, syncing from
LinkedIn Lead Gen Forms, adding a create-lead tile in a customer
journey, or a landing page or event registration submission. Leads are
designed to be linked to a specific contact record.

The lead source field on the entity, is a primary field used by most
marketers to quantify the impact of their lead generation efforts while
identifying which channels their best leads come from. In Dynamics 365
for Marketing, there are lead sources such as advertisements, partner,
public relations and marketing specific sources such as LinkedIn
sponsored form, landing page and trade shows. Tracking these sources
help marketing make practical business decisions on where to invest
their marketing funds.

The contact entity is common for and shared by most Dynamics 365 apps,
but Dynamics 365 for Marketing adds several enhancements,
including marketing source information and insights. On the contact
record, you can see which marketing initiatives were responsible for
generating the contact as well as the detailed  key performance indicators (KPIs) and analytics.

All these connected processes and a single source of information ensure
both sales and marketing have the latest data, including key contacts,
recent activities, past purchases, and open opportunities.