**My Workspace:** When using a free license, all activities with the Power BI service are constrained to My Workspace. Although no sharing or collaboration is occurring within the Power BI service in a personal BI scenario, the Power BI service is still useful for functionality such as scheduled data refreshes, dashboards, data alerts, as well as the ability to use the Power BI mobile app. It's recommended that the use of My Workspace be limited.

When a dataset author or report designer has finished developing and testing content created in Power BI Desktop, the .pbix file is published to a workspace in the Power BI service. There are two types of workspaces in the Power BI service.

| Type | Description|
|---|---|
| My Workspace | Every Power BI user has a private area called "My Workspace" that is intended purely for personal use. My Workspace is autogenerated and may not be disabled. |
| Workspace | Workspaces are shared workspaces where multiple users can collaborate. Workspaces are typically created for a specific purpose and a specific audience. |

## Best uses for My Workspace

Ideally, a user's My Workspace should be used only for:

- **Personal usage** - Content that will only be consumed by the individual user.

- **Testing purposes** - The report designer may use My Workspace temporarily to see what a report looks like in a browser or on a mobile device before publishing it to a workspace.

In all other cases, reports should be published to a workspace. Using My Workspace for anything other than the scenarios described above can be risky.

- If a user leaves an organization, their My Workspace area may be deleted and you risk losing any content that has been published there.

- Content within My Workspace can only be managed and maintained by that one individual. If the author goes on vacation or takes leave, you may be left scrambling to update content, fix issues, or refresh data.

- Power BI apps are a key element of distributing content to the organization. You may not publish an app from My Workspace.

## Workspaces

Power BI Desktop plus workspaces are where authors collaborate to create content. A key aspect of creating reports for an organization is that collaboration involves a group of people taking an active part in the process of designing and testing content rather than just being passive consumers of content.

There are several ways that workspaces support collaboration:

- Multiple users can work together to build, test, and release a set of datasets, reports, dashboards, workbooks, and dataflows (collectively known as "content").

- One user can take over the design of content that was started by someone else.

- One user may work on the design of an imported dataset, while other users build reports from that dataset using Power BI live connections in Power BI Desktop.

- Users may need to perform data validations (either in the formal, IT development sense of the word, or perform an informal "sanity check") for a report.

- Members of the same team, department, project, or even company won't just view content, but will discuss what it shows, act on the information shown, and suggest changes to existing content, or create new content as circumstances change.

- Stakeholders may need to review content during development. The team building the content may give view-only permissions to ease the review process without risking unintended editing.

Importantly, workspaces can have multiple admins, so you can ensure there's redundancy in the management of the workspace. You can provide access to workspaces through security groups, distribution groups, or Microsoft 365 groups. This enables easier access management as users enter or leave job roles and teams.

## Content distribution in the Power BI service

Adding users to a workspace is one way to make the content in that workspace available to users throughout your organization. There are other options available as well. While workspaces are primarily intended as a place for collaboration within a team, reports and dashboards may also be shared with other users outside workspace; finally, content may be distributed by publishing apps from workspaces.

While we discussed "collaboration for authoring content" in Power BI above, it's useful to understand the meaning of the terms "sharing" and "distribution" in the context of Power BI as well.

| Term | Definition |
|---|---|
| Sharing | Sharing is typically thought of as an act where one user gives another user, or group of users, access to a specific piece of content. The sharing feature in the Power BI service is scoped to one dashboard or one report. Sharing most commonly takes place between individuals who know each other and work closely together. |
| Distribution | Distribution can be thought of as an act where content is delivered to others. This is often to a larger number of users, across multiple teams, who may not have explicitly requested the content but need it as part of their job. The recipients who consume distributed content may or may not know the original creator of the content. As such, distribution is considered a more formal mechanism within the organization. |

Sharing refers to a feature in Power BI, so the term should be used carefully when communicating with others. Sometimes we're referring literally to the specific feature; other times it's used more generally.

## Distribution via apps

Content in a workspace may be distributed to a large number of users who aren't members of that workspace by publishing an app. An app is a **read-only** set of reports, dashboards, and workbooks that originate from the same workspace.

In a workspace, those with Administrator or Member permissions can publish and update an app (but contributors and viewers may not).

## Reference links for this unit

[Microsoft Business Applications Summit 2020](https://www.microsoft.com/BusinessApplicationsSummit/?azure-portal=true)
