Heathrow Airport is one of the world's busiest airports and models a  small city in complexity and traffic. With over 76,000 people working on a given day and 200,000 travelers passing through, there's a strong need to continually optimize operations. One way to accomplish this goal is through the digitization of processes, and part of that effort included the adoption of Microsoft Office 365 for all employees, and especially the later use of Power Apps 

There are easily thousands of processes that could be turned into apps, which would require hundreds of developers and years of work to even make a dent. While Heathrow has a robust IT department, they did not have hundreds of extra developers to begin digitizing processes. Or did they?

At Heathrow Airport, they have attacked the process of digital transformation by empowering the front line workers to build apps and solve problems. This revolution began with Samit Saini, a former security worker, who decided to show what could be accomplished with Power Apps. Saini's business change manager requested a further look into the value Office 365, which led Saini to Power Apps. Saini began developing an app that which held security information translated into dozens of different languages. Previously, this information was kept in a book located at security checkpoints, and Saini set out to improve this experience. From the success of that first app there are now dozens of apps and an official process for creating and implementing new apps.

In the full case study of [Heathrow Airport](https://customers.microsoft.com/story/766053-heathrow-airport-travel-transportation-power-apps), you'll learn the tremendous business value created by enabling front line workers to build apps using Power Apps. You'll also read about the support structures that they have put into place to help more people build their own apps and avoid duplication of efforts. And finally you'll get an overview of the tremendous reduction of work and cost savings these apps have led to. 

