When using Microsoft Power Apps, you don't have to write complicated application code the way that a traditional developer does. However, you must express logic in an app and control its navigation, filtering, sorting, and other functionality. This is where formulas come in.

If you've used Microsoft Excel functions, you'll be comfortable building apps in Power Apps. To create a formula, you will combine one or more formulas with the required and optional parameters. Here are some common functions and an explanation of what they do:
- **Filter** - This function is often used with galleries or tables of data to narrow down the rows returned from your data source. You do this by specifying one or more columns in your data set to perform a logic test on, which will allow you to return data that falls in a certain date range, has a set value, or was created by the user for example.
- **Match** - This function allows you to check a value to see if it follows a given pattern. You can use this to check if the user entered a properly formatted email address and, if they did not, show them a warning that a valid email is required. This function serves well for conditional formatting.
- **Distinct** - This function allows you to return the unique values from a list of data, making it easier to build dynamic dropdowns that show users only the valid values for the given column. 
- **Math functions** - Power Apps includes a range of math formulas for working with your data from the simple such as Sum or Average to the complex such as Atan and Sin to work with radians. 

This is a small sampling of the large library of Power Apps functions that are available. Also, remember you can combine functions into one formula to solve complex problems. This is the power of the platform. You start with simple formulas and then as your comfort grows you learn to combine them. 

For a complete list of all of the functions available in Power Apps, check out the documentation [here](/powerapps/maker/canvas-apps/formula-reference#s). To learn more about using formulas, check out the Microsoft Learning Path - Use basic formulas to make better Power Apps canvas apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/paths/use-basic-formulas-powerapps-canvas-app/).