You can use the power of R and Python at any stage in the process of using your data. Setup is simple and requires that R or Python be installed on your computer along with the appropriate packages.

You can run scripts directly in Power BI in order to bring in new data.

R and Python code typically contains a complex script, which gets data from various sources and applies data processing logic on the data and structure. If you need to source data using these scripts, you'll need an intermediary step to export to and then ingest the data from there. With Power BI, you can directly use the created scripts to pull in data. This can also be useful if another team has prepared their data in a specific way using R or Python and now needs to hand it off to you. Instead of attempting to translate their code, you can directly use it right in Power BI. 

You can run R or Python within the Query Editor itself. The Query Editor already has many powerful transformation tools that allow you to clean and modify your data to fit your needs. The R and Python integration allows you to take that same process even further by applying the abilities of these two languages to edit your data. It can be helpful if you've already written the ETL scripts to clean your data and you don't want to run through those steps in a new language, or the Power Query interface. You can use what you have already spent time creating.

Lastly, you can create visuals using R and Python as well. Both are treated as their own visual types that you can select from the Visualizations pane. Each will generate its own script editor for you to copy and paste your code. If you have R or Python installed with the appropriate packages, you can generate any visual.