Forms have a couple of overlooked properties and named operators. This
section will cover when and how to use the **Error** property,
**Unsaved** property, **ThisItem** named operator, and **Parent** named
operator.

Error property 
---------------

The **Error** property contains the output of any error messages
that are generated by the **Form** control. To view the contents of the
property, add a **Label** control to the screen and then for the
**Text** property enter the formula **Form1.Error**. It will be blank if
there is no error, but if you try to submit a form without entering all
of the required fields you would see a message such as "An entry is
required or has an invalid value. Please correct and try again." You can
use this value in formulas or other controls to design your apps error
handling.

Unsaved property
----------------

The **Unsaved** property is a Boolean property that is true when a form
has been edited but not submitted. You can use this property to check to
see if the user has unsaved change. An example of this would be to setup
the back button on your app to check to see if the form was unsaved, if
there is unsaved data then don't navigate. You could use the following
formula in the **OnSelect** property of a **Button** control to achieve
this.

```
If(YourFormName.Unsaved = false, Navigate(WelcomeScreen,
ScreenTransition.Cover))
```

This function would check to see if the **Form** control named
**YourFormName** had false for the **Unsaved** property. If the property is
false, then it would navigate the user to the screen named
WelcomeScreen. If the property is true, then nothing would happen. In
your app, you could expand upon this concept to add a warning message or
even a popup box telling the user why they couldn't navigate away.

In addition to the above, the **Form** control shares the named
operators, **ThisItem** and **Parent**, with the **Gallery** control.

ThisItem named operator
-----------------------

Within your **Form** or **Gallery** control, you can reference the
values of the current record by using **ThisItem**. This is helpful when
you are manually creating formulas to reference values from the record.
For example, if you wanted to add a label that combined the
**FirstName** and **LastName** fields into one string with a space in
the middle, you could use the following formula.

```
ThisItem.FirstName & " " & ThisItem.LastName
```

This formula assumes that you have a column named FirstName and a column
named LastName for the record you are displaying in the **Form** control.

Parent named operator
---------------------

Within the **Form** and **Gallery** controls, there is the concept of a
parent object. In the case of an **Input** or other control in a
**Form** control, you can pull a property from the data card by using
**Parent.** and the name of the property that you would like to
reference. An example is the default value. Data cards store this value
in their **Default** property. From an **Input** control, you can reference
that value with the formula **Parent.Default** in the **Default** value
of the **Input** control. Galleries have the same **Parent** concept
for querying properties from the **Gallery** control in the controls
within the gallery.
 
