Fundraising and Engagement sits at the core of the Microsoft Cloud for Nonprofit, a platform of capabilities and ready to use solutions for common nonprofit scenarios.

The Microsoft Cloud for Nonprofit starts with a common data model designed specifically for nonprofits, defining standard data tables and attributes for constituent management, program design and delivery, fundraising, and volunteer management. This is like a common language for nonprofit technology, which can be used with any platform, making it easier to unify and integrate your data from siloed internal and external sources.

The Microsoft Cloud for Nonprofit brings together a range of Microsoft capabilities - Microsoft 365 (productivity and collaboration tools, such as Microsoft Teams), Azure, Dynamics 365, Power Platform, and LinkedIn - and provides solutions to help you know your donors and supporters, deliver effective programming, and accelerate mission outcomes. You can extend any of these solutions or build your own solution with the platform tools.

Fundraising and Engagement works with the nonprofit common data model, and is built on Dynamics 365, with Azure running calculations and processes to provide real-time data and information. You can use LinkedIn Sales Navigator inside Fundraising and Engagement to engage with a larger prospective donor pool. Fundraising and Engagement works seamlessly with the integrated Microsoft 365 collaboration tools. Use Outlook to stay connected with constituents, and Microsoft Teams to collaborate on major moves or event planning. The low code tools of Power Platform can be used to build other role-based apps connected to Fundraising and Engagement, such as a mobile app for a face-to-face fundraiser, or to automate processes such as approvals, notifications, and receipting.

Learn more about the [Microsoft Cloud for Nonprofit](/industry/nonprofit/overview?azure-portal=true).
